- [Instructor] Reading data from a database
is another common requirement in batch jobs.
Within Spring Batch, there are several out of the box
item readers that make it easy to read
from a relational database.
These out of the box implementations include item readers
for JDBC cursors, hibernates, stored procedures
and JDBC paging.
In this lesson, we'll explore the JDBC cursor item reader
which is suitable for reading data
in single-threaded scenarios.
Within the data directory found in your working files,
you'll find the shipped_order.sql file.
If we open this file, you'll see that it contains
the DDL to generate a shipped order table
and then the insert statements to populate that table.
I've already executed this script within my mySQL database
and you'll notice that I have
the shipped order table in place.
You'll want to position this table and the data before
we begin this lesson.
In order to read data from a relational database,
we're going to create a new type of item reader,
the JDBC cursor item reader.
To do that, we're going to remove
the old flat file item reader and replace it.
So let's just go in and we'll take out all the configuration
related to that item reader
and we'll provide a new item reader implementation.
Within Spring Batch,
we can use a JDBC cursor item reader builder
to help us with the configuration
of a JDBC cursor item reader.
This builder does accept one generic argument,
which is the type of the POJO we'd like to read
from our data store, in this case, the relational database.
Using the builder, we can then chain method calls to provide
the configuration for our new item reader.
The first thing that we'll need to provide is a data source.
So I'm going to use the dataSource method
and then I'm just going to press Control + one
and declare a new field data source.
This will add the field to our class and we can go ahead
and inject the data source that we've configured
using Spring Boot.
This will allow our item reader to connect to our database.
The next thing we're going to do is specify a name
for our JDBC cursor item reader.
I'm just going to use jdbcCursorItemReader
and then we can proceed with our configuration.
An important piece of the configuration is the SQL
that will be used to read the data from the database.
Now you'll notice,
within our LinkedIn batch application class,
there is a static string order_sql.
We can go take a look at that SQL and it contains
the SQL statement that we can use to select an order
from our shipped_order table.
You'll notice it lists out all the fields
and then an important part of the SQL statement
is the order by clause.
So if we do not specify an order by clause,
the database does not guarantee the order
the data will be provided.
This can cause issues if we do need to restart our job
with Spring Batch.
So you want to be sure always to specify an order by clause
within your SQL statements.
Okay, once we have the SQL statement in place,
we're going to add one more item to our configuration
and that's a rowMapper.
A rowMapper is used to map the rows
from the database to our POJO.
For the moment, we're just going to add a constructor
that will stub for a rowMapper
we're going to build in the future.
And then finally, with all the configuration in place,
we'll call the build method in order to create
our new item reader.
Now we still have one piece of work and that's to build
our OrderRowMapper class.
So just hover over the OrderRowMapper constructor
and hit Control + one, that will bring up this dialogue
and you'll want to click on Create Class.
It's a lot easier when we allow the tool
to help us build our job configuration.
So once this dialogue opens,
it has the appropriate interface, rowMapper
and we just go ahead and hit Finish.
Here you'll see that we have a class that implements
the rowMapper interface,
it does have a generic parameter order
and then we have to define this mapRow method
in order to satisfy that interface.
Now this is very similar to our FieldSetMapper.
In fact, let's take a look at our FieldSetMapper.
And I'm just going to go copy this configuration.
You'll remember that our FieldSetMapper was used
to take the tokens from a line in a CSV
and build a new order instance.
We're doing a very similar thing within our rowMapper.
Instead of taking the fieldSet and the fields returned
from a CSV, we're working with a ResultSet
and we can easily modify the code that we use
for the FieldSetMapper to work for our rowMapper.
So you'll notice that the mapRow method
gets a ResultSet passed in.
When we were working in the FieldSetMapper,
it was a fieldSet.
Let's just go ahead and we're going to replace the fieldSet
with our ResultSet.
So we'll replace all and then if you've worked
with a ResultSet before, you'll notice the readLong,
readBigDecimal methods are very similar to what is found
on a ResultSet but instead of reading,
those methods just start with get.
So we can go ahead and replace all the reads with gets
and there we have our configuration.
So you'll notice the get methods on the ResultSet
very similar to those read methods on our FieldSetMapper.
So at this point, we have our rowMapper implementation
which is used to take a ResultSet from a database
and convert it to an instance of an order
and that's how we go from the ResultSet over to our POJO.
This point, we're just going to return
to our job configuration, save everything
and now we are set up to execute this job.
So let's head over to the terminal and within
the root directory of our project, we'll use the run script
to kick off the job and once the job is packaged into a jar,
then we will execute it and we'll see all the rows read
from our relational database.
So there we can see we're consuming the data
from the database.
And that completes our configuration
of our first item reader that works with a database.
So the JDBC cursor item reader, it's an effective way
to read from a database, however, it has one big drawback,
it's not thread-safe.
So if you plan to execute your job with multiple threads,
there's a different item reader implementation
that we'll need to use, it's the JDBC paging item reader.
We're going to cover that in the next lesson.
However, if you're in a single-threaded scenario,
you can consider using the JDBC cursor item reader.